You need to initalize a variable before you can use it.
Array indexes always starts at 0.
Arrays may not be of any type.
Once created, an array size can be modified. 
The subscript identifies which element in the array to access.
Array of int[10] would have indexes of 0 through 9.
The if statement decides whether a section of code executes or not.
A boolean expression can result in values other than true or false.
String is a primitive data type.
Java is a object-oriented programmin language
All computers must have an operating system. 
The JVM (java virtual machine) can run on a very limited number of computers. 
RAM is volatile meaning all data is erased when the computer is shut down. 
The short and float data types are the same size (in bytes).  
In a method header, you can only include 1 exception per "throws" clause. 
A compiler converts high-level instructions into machine code for execution.
Variables must be declared outside of the main method.
A "break" statement must be used after all cases in a "switch" selection besides the "default" case.
All elements of an array must be of the same data type.
The "==" operator is used to declare a variable.
A java source code file contains one or more Java classes.
The print method places a newline character at the end of whatever is being print out
If you want to express that x greater than or equal to y, then it can express x => y
The conditionally executed statement should be on the line after the if condition.
Arrays allow us to create a collection of like values that are indexed.
RAM stands for Random Access Memories
Char variables can be either upper or lowercase.
If a source code file has more than one class, only one may be public.
In Java, not every opening brace needs a closing brace.
Single line comments in Java begin with /*
RAM stands for Random Access Memory
In coding all data types use the same amount of memory storage
Pixels are dots of color that make up an image
If all of the {} and ; are taken out of a program it will always run the same as when the {} and ; are there
When coding constants are generally written in ALL CAPS
Desktop computers always have a seperate monitor
The CPU is considered the brain of the computer
All computers do the exact same function
ROM stands for Read Only Memory
Super Computers are only used to do calculations 
Java is the only programming language.
The term software refers to the physical components of a computer.
The Java programming language was originally called Oak.
Secondary storage devices are non-volatile.
The Java compiler is a command line utility.
Bill Gates founded Microsoft.
There can be up to 3 main methods in a class.
Windows is a Linux based operating system.
CPU is an ackrokym for Central Processing Unit.
The Hard-disk only holds memory until the computer is turned off.
IDE stands for "Integrated Development Environment".
The basic functions of a CPU are to Fetch, Decode, and then Execute Data.
Operating systems have two functions: to control system resources and to provide a UI for the user.
A variable is a value written into the code of the program.
Scope refers to the part of the program that has access to a variables constant.
In Java, Mary and mary have different values.
Strict rules in programming are known as syntax.
X-- adds a single value to X.
The if statement uses a boolean to decide whether to run or not.
RAM contains currently running programs and saved word files.
JVM is stand for Java Virtual Machine
When the break statement is encountered in a loop, all the statements in the body of the loop that appear after it are ignored, and the loop prepares for the next iteration.
If you are using a block of statements, don't forget to enclose all of the statements in a set of semicolons.
A Boolean expression is one that is either true or false
Pretest loops are while, for and do-while             
A printer is an input device.
When the computer is turned off, the contents of RAM are not erased.
A byte is made up of 8 bits.
A hard drive is a secondary storage device.
In Java programming, semi-colon marks the end of a complete programming statement.
The "brain" of the computer is the CPU
CPU stands for central processing unit
Java is exactly the same as C++
In coding we type integers with int
There is no true or false in programming
The more GB of RAM the slower the computer
loops are almost never used in programming
Different programming languages often require different syntax
Semi-colons are required to show the end of a statement
Operating systems are not useful to the everyday user
A keyboard is an input device.
RAM stands for random access module.
Java uses semi-colons on every line of code written.
A solid state drive is faster than a hard drive.
You can only run one program at a time on Windows 7.
RAM stands for Rotating Access Memory
CPU stands for Central Processing Unit 
8 bytes makes up a bit
Mac can also run Windows
There is no such thing as an infinite loop
The modulus operator (%) in Java can be used only with variables of integer type.
Declarations must appear at the start of the body of a Java method.
For the expression (y >= z && a == b) to be true, at least one of (y >= z) and (a == b) must be true.
The operating system serves as an intermediary between the user and the computer hardware.
A disk drive is an example of a secondary storage device.
A hybrid hard drive is a mix of both the Primary and Secondary Storage.
Pressing Alt + F4 closes your current running program.
The Bios starts up after your OS.
Pressing Ctrl + Shift + Esc brings up the comand prompt.
Microsoft Edge is the superior choice when using a browser.
The length of a string can be determined by one command.
In java, the output of 1/ 5 =  .2
Arrays index values can be chosen by the user.
Sentinal Value is a value that ends a loop.
The float and double data types store the same amount of memory.
Key words are all lowercase.
Arrays can store many types of data at once.
The do while loop is a post test loop.
Source code files have a .class file extension.
Java have three logical operators(&&, ||, !) that are used to combine boolean expressions.
public class simple is an example of a method header.
To run a java program you would enter java (class name).
All java statements end in a semicolon.
An integer takes up 8 bytes?
Constants are declared using the keyword final.
There are 3 loops we have learned, but only one is a pre-test loop.
A break statement is considered good practise when using loops.
A double can be forced into a float using the letter 'F'.
A double variable can hold a number with a decimal point.
There are 4 components to the major hardware of a computer.
JVM stands for Java Virtual Machine
Array values initialize to 1 by default
A for loop contains 3 arguments seperated by semicolons
The java compiler changes byte code to source code.
Every application must have a main method.
